Seizing of land, Social boycotts, restriction to the access of drinking water, are only some of the problems faced by Dalits simply because of their caste. A crime is committed by a non-dalit to a dalit every sixteen minutes a day according to the national crime records bureau. Thirteen dalits are murdered and six kidnapped every week. 
There fundamental rights are constantly violated. This issue, with such significance hasn’t received as much recognition as other major issues such as sexism and racism to name a few, that have been challenged in international forums. The problem is that caste has admirers in high places. People assume caste to just be the division of labour, and don’t see that it divides the labourers themselves, with hierarchy  . Dalits are seen as impure ,not as people themselves, and weren’t allowed to use the roads used by privileged castes ,weren’t allowed into Hindu temples ,couldn’t go to schools were children of a privileged caste went, were only allowed to wear certain clothes and jewellery. These aren’t incidents from a distant past, as in many parts of India , much of the aforementioned practices continue.
Dalits continue to work as sanitation workers , as manual scavengers , cleaners of drains, garbage collectors, and sweepers of roads. 16%  of the Indian population are dalits. Of 121 newsroom leadership positions -such as the managing director, executive editor, bureau chief  ,Input /output editor-across  newspapers ,TV news channels, news websites ,and magazines , 106 are occupied by uppercastes, five by other backward classes, and six from minority communities. four individuals couldn’t be identified, and not a single individual was a dalit, not representing there share in India’s population. In its 70 years of existence,the supreme court has only seen 1 dalit chief justice
You might think you haven’t seen the effects of the caste system around you. In hindsight, it might seem to be as such. But think about it , how many dalits do you know, as a teacher or student, in our school?.
